Welcome, in this video, we're going to take a quick look at Gists.
I'm currently logged into GitHub, and I'm on my newsfeed page.
If you're somewhere else in GitHub, just click on the octocat icon at the top.
This will take you back to your newsfeed page. At the top of the page,
we have an item called "Gist" or "Gist", depending on how you prefer to pronounce this.
Click on "Gist"; gists are a way of sharing little snippets of code,
kind of like a Pastebin. But it's not intended for a full file,
although it can be; typically it's for one or a few files.
Using gists, it's basically a miniature Git repository.
Starting out, I don't have any gists, so I'm going to create one.
I'm going to give my gist a description; I'm going to call this:
"Java Home Environment Variable on Linux".
The file name I want to use, which would be the filename plus extension;
I'm going to call this ".bashrc", and in the contents I will just type in or paste in
the contents of the snippet of this file that I wish to share with others.
I can add additional files if I need to. For some systems, ".bashrc" file will be fine,
but for others I will need to use another file: ".bash_profile".
So, this gist has two files, or really the partial of two files.
Once I'm happy with my changes, I have two options; I can create a secret gist
or a public gist. A secret gist is publically available,
but excluded from search engines, so you must give out the gist URL
for people to access it. If we create a public gist,
the gist will be fully available to anyone searching on Google or other search engines.
I'm going to create public gist. Great, so I land on the page that is for this gist,
and you can see it looks a lot like a miniature Git repository.
For example, I can edit if I go up to the edit button; let's separate this out onto two lines.
Great, in bash I create a variable, in this case "JAVA_HOME",
and set its value to "/path/to/java", then I export the "JAVA_HOME" environment variable.
Then, I'm going to click on "Update public gist".
Great, so the code over here shows revisions;
if I click on revisions, I can see a diff between the different versions.
I'm going to click on the name of the gist to go back to its page, and at the bottom
if I wish to, I can leave a comment using the markdown format.
Once I'm happy with my comment, I'm going to preview it.
That looks good to me; click on "Comment" to leave the comment.